# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2024.4  
**Subject:** WCA Appeals Committee  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Appeals Committee  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** TBC, 2024  

# Motion

The WCA Appeals Committee is an Advisory Committee of the WCA.

1. The WCA Appeals Committee has the following rights and duties:
   1. Functioning as the Board of Appeal in line with the processes described in [WCA Motion : Disputes](wca{documents/motions/16.2021.1 - Disputes.pdf}).
   2. Performing independent investigations regarding appealed incidents
   3. Making decisions on disciplinary actions in relation to appealed incidents.
   4. Informing the WCA Board on appeals, investigations, decisions, and disciplinary actions.
   5. Publishing public information on the appeals, investigations, decisions, and disciplinary actions where necessary.
   6. Managing an administration of the appeals, investigations, the reports, the decisions, and the disciplinary actions.
2. All WCA Staff and Registered Speedcubers must fully cooperate with investigations by the WCA Appeals Committee.
3. In case the WCA Appeals Committee is not constituted or for any reason non-functional, the WCA Board will act as WCA Appeals Committee.
4. The WCA Appeals Committee will take the role of WCA Integrity Committee in case the WCA Integrity Committee is not constituted or for any reason non-functional.
      1. For any period where the WCA Appeals Committee assumes the role of the WCA Integrity Committee the WCA Board may appoint select WCA Staff to handle cases of appeal.
5. Reducing conflicts of roles
   1. There may be no overlap in members of the WCA Board, WCA Integrity Committee, and WCA Appeals Committee unless the Board is temporarily required to lead, due to that Committee not having a Leader.
