# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 16.2024.1  
**Subject:** Disputes  
**Intent:** Definition of the Processes in case of Disputes  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** TBC, 2024  

# Motion

1. Acts and decisions of WCA Staff may be subject to disputes by affected individuals or organizations.
   1. Disputes regarding the application of WCA Regulations must be directed to and handled by WCA Regulations Committee, and are bound by the provisions of the WCA Regulations.
   2. Disputes regarding the conduct of WCA Staff where it is alleged the Spirit, Mission, Motions, Policies, Codes, Regulations and the applicable governing laws are violated must be directed to and handled by WCA Integrity Committee, and are bound by the Spirit, Mission, Motions, Policies, Codes, Regulations of the WCA, and the applicable governing laws.
   3. Disputes regarding the conduct of WCA Community members where it is alleged the Spirit, Mission, Motions, Policies, Codes, Regulations and the applicable governing laws are violated must be directed to and handled by WCA Integrity Committee, and are bound by the Spirit, Mission, Motions, Policies, Codes, Regulations of the WCA, and the applicable governing laws. 
   4. All other Disputes should be directed to and handled by WCA Integrity Committee, and are bound by the Spirit, Mission, Motions, Policies, Codes, Regulations of the WCA, and the applicable governing laws.
2. All disputes may be subject to appeal by affected individuals or organizations.
2. Disputes must be filed within sixty days after the disputed act or decision.
3. Disputes must be handled within sixty days of the date of dispute.
4. Appeals to decisions on disputes must be filed within sixty days after the decision.
5. Appeals must be handled within sixty days of the date of appeal.
6. During the process of disputes and appeals all involved parties should be heard.
7. The decisions on disputes and appeals will take immediate effect and all WCA Staff, Registered Speedcubers, and Partners must take all necessary actions to ensure that the decisions come into effect.
